docs/automatizer.md, before:

Automatizer — packaging and release

This project includes a Python implementation of the "automatizer" at src/libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/automatizer.py. To provide release parity with the Windows-native `automatizer.exe`, we use PyInstaller to generate one-file native executables per-platform.

Local build

- Install PyInstaller (preferably in a virtualenv):
  python3 -m pip install pyinstaller

- Build a local single-file binary:
  scripts/build_automatizer.sh

CI builds

A GitHub Actions workflow `Build Automatizer` builds platform artifacts on demand (tag or manual dispatch) for Windows, macOS and Linux. The workflow outputs the following artifacts for download:

- automatizer-windows (dist/automatizer.exe)
- automatizer-macos (dist/automatizer)
- automatizer-linux (dist/automatizer)

Notes & caveats

- PyInstaller must be run on its target platform to produce a native executable. The workflow uses platform-specific runners to satisfy this requirement.
- The generated binaries are self-contained but may still depend on system GUI frameworks (tkinter) if the automatizer uses them. Packaging for GUI apps may require additional PyInstaller flags (e.g. --windowed) or hidden imports.
- Do not commit large binary artifacts to the repository. Use GitHub Releases or artifacts produced by the workflow for distribution.

Running the packaged automatizer

- On Windows: download `automatizer.exe` and place it under `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/` or `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/bin/` so the existing Windows wrappers will detect it automatically.
- On macOS/Linux: download the `automatizer` binary and place it under `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/bin/` (ensure it is executable) to be discoverable by the POSIX wrapper added in src.

If desired, the project can be extended to automatically publish built binaries to GitHub Releases as part of a release workflow.

Commit message:

Packaging: add PyInstaller helper to include Tcl/Tk for tkinter apps; update CI and docs

docs/automatizer.md, after:

Automatizer — packaging and release

This project includes a Python implementation of the "automatizer" at src/libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/automatizer.py. To provide release parity with the Windows-native `automatizer.exe`, we use PyInstaller to generate one-file native executables per-platform. Packaging tkinter apps requires bundling Tcl/Tk runtime data alongside the binary; this repository includes a helper to automate that.

Local build

- Install PyInstaller (preferably in a virtualenv):
  python3 -m pip install pyinstaller

- Build a local single-file binary using the helper script which attempts to discover Tcl/Tk libraries and include them:
  scripts/build_automatizer.sh

CI builds

A GitHub Actions workflow `Build Automatizer` builds platform artifacts on demand (tag or manual dispatch) for Windows, macOS and Linux. The workflow now calls a helper script that probes the environment and passes appropriate `--add-data` and `--hidden-import` flags to PyInstaller so tkinter works correctly in the bundled binary. The workflow outputs the following artifacts for download:

- automatizer-windows (dist/automatizer.exe)
- automatizer-macos (dist/automatizer)
- automatizer-linux (dist/automatizer)

Notes & caveats

- PyInstaller must be run on its target platform to produce a native executable. The workflow uses platform-specific runners to satisfy this requirement.
- The helper attempts to locate Tcl/Tk libraries via environment variables (`TCL_LIBRARY`, `TK_LIBRARY`), by probing `tkinter` (using `tkinter.Tcl()` to avoid creating a window), and by checking common Homebrew or Python install paths. If the helper cannot detect Tcl/Tk, it will warn, and the resulting binary may fail at runtime when importing/using tkinter.
- On macOS with Homebrew-installed tcl-tk, ensure your Python interpreter and Homebrew Tcl/Tk are compatible (sometimes `python` needs to be linked against the Homebrew tcl-tk). If packaging fails because tkinter cannot be imported during the probe, set `TCL_LIBRARY` and `TK_LIBRARY` environment variables in the workflow job to assist the helper.
- If the automatizer uses other resources (images, fonts), you may need to add them to the helper's `--add-data` list.

Running the packaged automatizer

- On Windows: download `automatizer.exe` and place it under `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/` or `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/bin/` so the existing Windows wrappers will detect it automatically.
- On macOS/Linux: download the `automatizer` binary and place it under `libs/pvsneslib/devkitsnes/bin/` (ensure it is executable) to be discoverable by the POSIX wrapper added in src.

Troubleshooting

- If the packaged binary fails with Tcl/Tk runtime errors, re-run the Build Automatizer workflow with `TCL_LIBRARY` and `TK_LIBRARY` environment variables set to the correct directories for that runner, or adjust the helper to include additional paths.
- To debug PyInstaller packaging locally, run the helper with `--debug` to get verbose warnings.

If desired, the project can be extended to automatically publish built binaries to GitHub Releases as part of a release workflow.
